                          Embed program MENURUN
                              9 October 2022

menurun filename

The program displays a tree-structured menu to the user.  Menu entries can
be selected by left-clicking on them.

The up/down arrow keys can be used to go to previous/next menu entries in
the same menu.  Left arrow aborts the current menu and goes back to the
previous menu.  Right arrow goes to the submenu indicated by the current
menu entry, if the current entry is a submenu.  ENTER selects the current
menu entry.

When a menu entry is selected, the command associated with that entry is
run.  If the menu entry is for a submenu, then the submenu is displayed
and becomes the current menu.

The FILENAME command line option is the name of the menu file that
describes the menu tree to present to the user.  The ".menu" mandatory
file name suffix may be omitted from FILENAME.


                             Menu file format

Menu files contain lines of text.  Each line is a command starting with a
keyword, possibly followed by parameters to the command.  Commands and
their parameters are separated by one or more spaces.  If a parameter
contains spaces, then it must be enclosed in quotes ("") or apostrophies
('').

The information in a menu file is hierarchical, with the indentation level
of each command indicating the nesting level within the hierarchy.  Top
level commands start in column 1.  Each additional level of nesting is
indicated by an additional two spaces.  Commands starting in even column
numbers are not allowed.

There is no explicit syntax for ending a subordinte block.  Commands at
higher levels (less indentation) implicitly end any blocks that were open
at a lower level.

Keywords, like command names, are case-insensitive.

The commands are:

  ENTRY name

    Defines a menu entry at the current level.  NAME is the name string
    shown to the user for this menu entry.  As with all parameters, if
    NAME contains spaces, then it must be enclosed in quotes or
    apostrophies.

    The ENTRY command starts a subordinate block of subcommands that
    provide additional information about the menu entry.  The ENTRY
    subcommands are:

    SHCUT n

      Identifies a shortcut character for the menu entry.  N is the 1-n
      number of the name character that is the shortcut.  This character
      in the name may be shown differently to the user, like underlined
      for example.

      The special N value of 0 indicates that there is no shortcut letter
      for this menu entry.  This is also the default when SHCUT is not
      used.

    SEQ n

      Sets the sorting sequence number of this entry.  Entries appear in
      the menu by ascending sequence number, not necessarily the order
      they appear in the menu file.

      An entry is added to the menu immediately after the last entry that
      has a sequence number less than or equal to N.  This means that
      entries in the same menu with the same sequence number will appear
      in the menu in the order they are encountered in the menu file.

      The default sequence number is the largest possible value,
      16#7FFFFFFF or 2147483647.  Therefore menu entries will appear in
      the order they are in the menu file unless SEQ commands are used.

    MENU

      Starts a subordinate block for a submenu.  The current menu entry
      will bring up this submenu when selected.  The same commands as at
      the top level are expected in the subordinate level below the MENU
      subcommand.

    RUN command

      Indicates the command to run when the menu entry is selected.
      COMMAND is not a string.  The whole rest of the line after "RUN "
      will be taken as the command to run.  The command line can therefore
      have spaces, but need not be enclosed in quotes.

      When the entry is selected, the first token of COMMAND will be
      expanded to a native pathname according to the Embed pathname rules.
      The expanded pathname followed by the rest of the command line will
      be passed to the operating system for execution.

    IN dir

      Specifies the directory to run the command in.  The RUN command must
      have been used previously for this menu entry, and the IN command
      not.

      DIR is the directory to run the command in.  It will be expanded
      using Embed pathname rules when the command is run.  The empty
      string specifies no directory, which leaves the directory the
      program is run in undefined.  The default is that the directory is
      not defined.
