                          Embed Program MENUADD
                             7 October 2022

menuadd [filename] [options]

Add an entry to the menu file indicated by FILENAME.  The mandatory
".menu" file name suffix may be omitted from FILENAME.  See the MENURUN
documentation file for the menu file format.

The menu file will be read and corresponding data structures built in
memory.  The in-memory data is altered according to the command line
options, then the result written back to the same menu file.  The menu
file is therefore completely re-written by this program.

It is allowed for the menu file to not exist orginally.  That is interpret
as an empty menu tree.

The command line options are:

  -N seq name

    Gives the next menu entry name in the hierarchy to the leaf-node
    entry.  The first -N option gives the name of the top level menu
    entry.  The second -N option the name of the entry in the first
    subordinate menu, etc.  The last -N option gives the leaf-node menu
    entry name.

    SEQ is the sort sequence number of where to insert the entry NAME in
    the current menu.  The new entry will be inserted immediately after
    the last entry in the current menu with a sort sequence number less
    than or equal to SEQ.

  -SH n

    Indicate that name character N is the shortcut character for this menu
    entry.  N of 0 specifies not shortcut character, which is also the
    default.  This command line option applies to the most recent -N
    option.

  -IN dir

    Set the current directory the command will be run in as DIR.  Embed
    pathname rules are applied to DIR when the menu entry is selected.
    The default is the current directory the MENURUN program is run with.

  -CMD command

    The command to run.  The whole remainder of the MENUADD command line
    after "-CMD " will be taken as the command to run when the menu entry
    is selected.  This command line option is required, and is always the
    last option on the command line.

